#summary Instructions on downloading and installing FoFiX
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

= Basic Instructions =

==Instructions for a first time installation ==
  # Download the [http://code.google.com/p/fofix/downloads/list?can=2&q=release:Full full release of your choice].
  # Decompress the archive in a *NEW* folder of your choice.
    * Do *NOT* attempt to merge this version with ANY OTHER version of Frets on Fire, including previous MFH-Alarian mods.
  # Start the game.
    * Windows: run `FretsOnFire.exe`
    * GNU/Linux or MacOS X: run `FretsOnFire`
  # Set your settings.
  # Set your song folder.
    * The first time you attempt to play you will be prompted to find your `songs` folder.
    * It must be named `songs` but it may be outside the game folder structure.

Enjoy!

==Patch install instructions==
First, be sure you have one of the 3.0xx full releases.  Download the latest patch [http://code.google.com/p/fofix/downloads/list?can=2&q=release:Patch from here] and extract it to the game folder (where !FretsOnFire.exe and the data folder are). This should mainly copy a new data\library.zip over your original, as well as any additional support files required over the last major release. Then you are ready to play!

Each patch comes with a blank fretsonfire.ini for *MAXIMUM COMPATIBILITY*. You may choose to keep your old fretsonfire.ini so you do not have to re-set all your settings. However, if you encounter problems or bugs then the *FIRST THING* you have to try is a *BLANK* fretsonfire.ini file!

*IMPORTANT* Use [http://www.rarlab.com/ WinRar 3.70+] or equivalent to read the .RAR compressed archives properly.


==Additional themes==
You can find a list of additional, up-to-date themes for FoFiX [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=25040#themes here].  You can find even more themes by searching around the linked forum.

After downloading and extracting a new theme, move the theme's folder (should be named after the theme you downloaded - such as "Rock Band 1" or "Guitar Hero 3") into your FoFiX\data\themes\ folder.  It should appear underneath your "MegaLight" theme folder, and should be selectable under "Theme Settings" for use in-game.  Be sure to "Apply New Settings" to load the new theme!

*PLEASE NOTE* if you cannot even get a basic version of Frets on Fire working, FoFiX will not fix your problem. We will not help you get the game working.  There are plenty of other support threads on [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewforum.php?f=3 this forum] that can help you troubleshoot. Once you have a basic version of FoF working (FoF v1.2.451, or RF-Mod 4.15), then you are ready to try this mod.