#summary Problems we are aware of.
#labels Phase-Support

= Introduction =
Please note, we are not currently looking for suggestions. However, just in case you feel the need to suggest or report something, please review the following first.

= Known Issues =
*NOTE* Some of these have not been confirmed and some have existed long before this fork was created.

  * hitglow for drum "chords" only show for the last note hit
  * Practice mode's "time" (mm:ss)-style markers are NOT calculated accurately at all
  * Random, inexplicable, unrepeatable hangs occur sometimes when loading the song list or loading a song for gameplay. Above-normal priority handling code is suspected. [http://www.fretsonfire.net/cgi-bin/ikonboard.cgi?act=ST&f=11&t=24664&st=4670#entry307313 detail post] *Maybe Fixed*
  * Pausing may interrupt your streak and multiplier if there are notes close enough to the current position
  * Songs with a corrupted or problematic .OGG file will cause a [http://www.fretsonfire.net/cgi-bin/ikonboard.cgi?act=ST;f=11;t=24664;st=2570#entry280280 tough-to-read in-game error]
  * Solos in RB - Green Grass & High Tides aren't parsed exactly as they are in the real game [http://www.fretsonfire.net/cgi-bin/ikonboard.cgi?act=ST;f=11;t=24664;st=3590#entry291538 detail post]
  * All "sub-menus" share an x and y position; this is due to the way FoF's menu object works.
  * Options are sorted alphabetically; sometimes this is not desirable but this is the way it is.
  * Starpower phrases sometimes will re-activate after missing a note, allowing undeserved starpower gains
  * Guitar solos require an unbroken streak to get a 100% - even if you overstrum and hit all the notes, your guitar solo will be forced down to 99.0%. I do not plan to change this; it's like this for a reason, and was tough enough to get working.
  * Browsing a folder with only 4 entries in song "list" mode results in the list jumping up and down - it has been this way for a long time - [http://www.fretsonfire.net/cgi-bin/ikonboard.cgi?act=ST&f=11&t=24664&st=4660#entry307107 detail post]
  * Sometimes, the game will start with fonts displayed all incorrectly. It has been this way for a long time. Just exit and restart.
  * Any image files (stages, backgrounds, etc) MUST have a lowercase ".png" extension - THE GAME CAN NOT HANDLE CAPITALIZED ".PNG" EXTENSIONS! *Likely Fixed*
  * While in the songlist, the game ignores keypresses while loading a song preview either via the yellow fret or auto preview (of course... just like the game ignores inputs while it's loading anything else)
  * on the setlist (CD mode), when using F3 to load a preview, "Loading Preview..." doesn't disappear anymore after the preview has been loaded; you can even press Escape to go to another folder : "Loading Preview..." stays on the screen.
  * -and in songlist mode, "Loading Preview..." does not show up at all.

= Unconfirmed Bug Reports =
*NOTE* We have not been able to reproduce any of these, so to us, these bugs do not exist.

  * GH3 complex tail system does not work under Linux
  * Font size and positioning has some discrepancies between platforms / OS's
  * Selecting a language other than English, then quitting the game & deleting that translation file, then restarting the game will incorrectly show the selected language. [http://www.fretsonfire.net/cgi-bin/ikonboard.cgi?act=ST&f=11&t=24664&st=4390#entry303584 detail post]
  * After pressing ESC to exit from a sub-menu, Up and Down no longer repeat for some reason.
  * Note tails (GH3 complex tails) under strings bug -- [http://www.fretsonfire.net/cgi-bin/ikonboard.cgi?act=ST&f=11&t=24664&st=4810#entry309661 detail post]
  * Another GH3 complex tail bug - only one held note appears to be held - [http://www.fretsonfire.net/cgi-bin/ikonboard.cgi?act=ST&f=11&t=24664&st=4970#entry311323 detail post]
  * songs folder on a different drive than Frets on Fire navigation problem [http://www.fretsonfire.net/cgi-bin/ikonboard.cgi?act=ST;f=11;t=24664;st=4900#entry310268 detail post]
  * When exiting the songlist back to the main menu, the OptionsBG image can be seen.
  * Every once in a while, [http://www.fretsonfire.net/cgi-bin/ikonboard.cgi?act=ST;f=11;t=24664;st=5120#entry313889 this] will happen (multiple game screens mixed together) - FoF isn't perfect (far from it), and it gets confused. Restart the game, you'll be fine.
  * Pressing the "Home" button while playing the game can result in this [http://img337.imageshack.us/img337/7711/mfhhomebuttonerrorue5.th.gif screenshot]
  * Drum overdrive sometimes will dissappear without a miss, and reappear - [http://www.fretsonfire.net/cgi-bin/ikonboard.cgi?act=ST;f=11;t=30757;st=250#entry318723 detail post]
  * In-game credits logo scrolls at a different speed than the text
  * Animated Killswitch tails change to white when the end of the tail is in view -- [http://www.mediafire.com/?xzyt2trnyza demo video]
  * Bug: "iteration over non-sequence" for custom songs? [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=25040&st=0&sk=t&sd=a&start=705#p294920 report post], [http://www.mediafire.com/download.php?2myhhznmgty log]
  * Bug: CD songlist displays no stars? [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=25040&st=0&sk=t&sd=a&start=705#p295031 post], [http://rapidshare.com/files/155252111/fretsonfire.log log] 
  * Bug: PH3 career songs always say "Play to advance"? - [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=25040&st=0&sk=t&sd=a&start=705#p295165 post], [http://www.mediafire.com/?ygyynwyq22z log]
  * (Sometimes Career songs in Career mode will still say "Play to Advance" instead of showing the number of times played?)
