#summary Tips, information, and recommendations for song fretters.
#labels Phase-CareerMaking
----
----
== Fretting tutorials ==
The following is quoted from the [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?f=1&t=1945 ***** HOW TO MAKE SONGS FOR FRETS ON FIRE *****] stickied thread on the Frets on Fire Fan Forums:

    If you want to make songs for fretsonfire, it is recommended that you read these topics, peoples favourites being the Feedback and EOF editors.

    [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?t=1773 Guide to making songs using the Freetar Editor.] - by Keith<br/>
    [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?p=333461#p333461 Another guide to making songs using the Freetar Editor.] - by dexgod

    [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?t=1856 Guide to making songs using Midi Editors, in this example - Fruity Loops.] - by Nobby76

    [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?t=1938 Guide to making songs using the EOF Editor.] - by coolguy567

    [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?t=1897 Guide to making songs using the Feedback Editor.] / [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?t=1913Part 2] - by Puppetz_86

Read on for some more tips for fretters.

----

== Special MIDI Marker Notes ==

When I refer to a MIDI marker note, I am referring to a "NOTE ON" event and a "NOTE OFF" event that collectively mark out a song section for some special purpose (starpower, solo, etc.) on a certain note pitch (such as G8 or G#9).

----

== Star Power _(GH)_ / Overdrive _(RB)_ ==

*Fretters' note on marking Overdrive and Starpower sections, with Solo Section marking in mind*

_note: this will only make sense to you if you understand how the MIDI format works -- if you work with a Piano Roll to fret your songs then read on!_

I would highly recommend you create any Starpower sections as Overdrive sections, as FoFiX interprets them exactly the same.  _(Rock Band format MIDIs will have a much richer support for features in FoFiX.  Support is still being expanded.)_

Starpower sections would usually be marked on note G8; Overdrive sections are marked on G#9.  In Rock Band, solo sections are marked on G8.  

This means that if you mark starpower on G8, you will ONLY be able to designate GUITAR SOLOS using the old TEXT EVENT (GH1 style) or SECTION EVENT (original FoFiX RB1 style) methods.

That is why I recommend marking starpower or overdrive on G#9.  Then, should you decide that you want to mark out some DRUM SOLOS or BASS SOLOS (or guitar solos, of course, without the old messy text event method) -- you will be able to add those on G8.

----

_Note, it would be entirely possible to choose an unused GH MIDI note to use for marking solo sections while still using G8 for starpower.  However, if the game detects any G#9 in the MIDI file on an instrument track, it will NOT let you use any G8 starpower markings.  Not to mention the fact that any such custom song might not be compatible with the real GH engine (which matters to some)._

----

===What NOT to do===

Please see Puppetz Hero 3, Tier 1 (at least) for examples of how to NOT use MIDI marker notes.  These songs (created by the fretting software FeedBack / "dB") have solo sections marked as note G8... and they have NO OTHER MARKER NOTES.  Meaning, no G#9 starpower / overdrive markings -- which means, the G8 markers are interpreted as STARPOWER / OVERDRIVE PATHS.  There is nothing I can do about this automatically.  These MIDIs should optimally be corrected, either removing the G8 solo marking or adding starpower / overdrive paths on G#9.  

FoFiX now will ignore starpower markings if there are less than two of them.  Two starpower paths are required to gain enough starpower to activate.  This will solve the majority of complaints caused by PH3's nonstandard MIDI marking convention.

----