These Are All the Documented Theme.ini Settings Usable. This list will be updated as new ones are added.

You first need to create a theme.ini in your theme's folder. Once you create the file you need to type this header line in at the very top:

_{{{[theme]}}}_

....then any of the settings below may be added underneath the [theme] header:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Main Menu*
                     
_(Decimal number between 0 and 1, IE- .34)_
{{{
'menu_x = .665 (X Position of main menu image)'
'menu_y = .842 (Y Position of main menu image)'
'main_menu_scale = .5'
'main_menu_vspacing = 0.09'
}}}

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Loading Phrases and Coordinates*   
_(Decimal # between 0 and 1, IE- .34)_
{{{
loading_X = .5  (X Position of Phrase positioning on screen)
loading_Y = .595 (Y Position of Phrase positioning on screen)
loading_phrase = How good are You?     (Put '_' between each phrase for multiple phrases.)   
results_phrase = Jurgen is watching_Let's get this show on the Road
}}}
Notice - If you just want the default phrases to show do not put these in your theme.ini




----------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Song Selection List / CD list* _(defaults shown below)_
{{{
song_cd_x = 0                        (Can be 0 through 5, values outside this range will be clipped to 0 or 5 to prevent CDs from going off-screen)
song_cdscore_x = .6                  (Decimal # between 0 - 1, IE- .34)
song_list_x = .15                    (Decimal # between 0 - 1, IE- .34)
song_listscore_x = .8                (Decimal # between 0 - 1, IE- .34)
songback = True                      (Scrolls the Song Selection Background image. If your image isn't long enough, Use SongChooseBack.png just in case, this image is static)
career_title_color = #000000         (Hex color code)
opt_text_color = #FFFFFF             (Hex color code)
opt_selected_color = #FFBF00         (Hex color code)
song_name_text_color = #FFFFFF       (Hex color code)
song_name_selected_color = #FFBF00   (Hex color code)
artist_text_color = #4080FF          (Hex color code)
artist_selected_color = #4080FF      (Hex color code)
library_text_color = #FFFFFF         (Hex color code)
library_selected_color = #FFBF00     (Hex color code)
songlist_score_color = #FFFFFF       (GH3 theme default = #3f5a75)
}}}



------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*In Game Items*                     
_(Decimal # between 0 and 1, IE- .34)_
{{{
twoDkeys = False                 (Use 3d keys  = False)
twoDnote = False                 (Use 3d notes = Fales)
Rotating 3d Starnotes            (Default is on)
threeDspin = False               (Turns 3d Starnote spinning off.)
spot_color = #EEEEEE             (Enter Hex color here. IE- #EEEEEE)
hopo_color = #EEEEEE             (Enter Hex color here. IE- #EEEEEE)
mesh_color = #000000             (Enter Hex color here. Default - #000000)
open_color = #FF9933             (Enter Hex color here. Default - #FF9933)
rockmeter_score_color = #93c351  (Enter Hex color here. Default for GH3 is )
ingame_stats_color = #000000     (Enter Hex color here.)
fret0_color = #22FF22            (Manually set 1st fret tail color)
fret1_color = #FF2222            (Manually set 2nd fret tail color)
fret2_color = #FFFF22            (Manually set 3rd fret tail color)
fret3_color = #3333FF            (Manually set 4tg fret tail color)
fret4_color = #FF9933            (Manually set 5th fret tail color)
crowd_loop_delay = x             (x = integer.  Default user setting = 550 for sounds\crowdcheers.ogg)
}}}




------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Background, text, selected text colors*
{{{
background_color = #000000     (Color of the background screen. Should be black)
base_color = #FFFFFF           (Unselected text color)
selected_color = #FFBF00       (Highlighted text color)
versiontag = true              (Forces showing the Versiontag onscreen) 
}}}



----------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Pause & options menus, backgrounds & text positions*
{{{
pause_bkg_x = 0                      (from center)
pause_bkg_y = 0                      (from center)
pause_text_x = .3                    (Decimal # between 0 - 1, IE- .34)
pause_text_y = .31                   (Decimal # between 0 - 1, IE- .34)
opt_bkg_x = 0                        (from center)
opt_bkg_y = 0                        (from center)
opt_text_x = .38                     (8bit theme default = .44, RB theme default = .25)
opt_text_y = .15                     (8bit theme default = .14, RB theme default = .14)
fail_bkg_x = 0                       (fail menu background and text)
fail_bkg_y = 0                       (fail menu background and text)
fail_text_x =                        (default is calculated, not constant)
fail_text_y = .47                    (fail menu background and text)
pause_text_color = #FFFFFF           (Hex color code)
pause_selected_color = #FFBF00       (Hex color code)
sub_menu_x = .38                     (Difficult Select Screen & Instrument Select. 8bit theme default = .44, RB theme default = .25)
sub_menu_y = .15                     (Difficult Select Screen & Instrument Select. 8bit theme default = .14, RB theme default = .14)
fail_text_color = #FFFFFF            (Hex color code)
fail_selected_color = #FFBF00        (Hex color code)
}}}





Good luck with making a custom theme to all!!!
-----------------------------------------------
Done and Maintained by Worldrave