#summary Instructions on downloading and installing FoFiX
#labels Phase-Deployment,Featured
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />
= Basic Instructions =

==Instructions for a first time installation ==
  # Download the [http://code.google.com/p/fofix/downloads/list?can=2&q=release:Full full release of your choice].
  # Decompress the archive in a *NEW* folder of your choice.
    * Do *NOT* attempt to merge this version with ANY OTHER version of Frets on Fire, including previous "MFH-Alarian" or "MFH" mods - the structure has changed significantly. FoFiX is a standalone game - not a mod or a patch.
  # Start the game.
    * Windows: run `FoFiX.exe`
    * GNU/Linux or MacOS X: run `FoFiX`
  # Set your settings.
  # Set your song folder.
    * The first time you attempt to play you will be prompted to find your `songs` folder.
    * It must be named `songs` but it may be outside the game folder structure.

Enjoy!

== Getting your GH/RB controller to work ==
Please see GameControllers.

==Patch install instructions==
While a patch is available for Windows 3.0xx->3.100, we recommend you download the full version.

*IMPORTANT* If you don't know how to open the .RAR compressed archives properly, consider [http://www.7-zip.org 7-zip].


==Additional themes==
You can find a list of additional, up-to-date themes for FoFiX [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?f=32&t=24976 here].  This is the most comprehensive list of themes known.

After downloading and extracting a new theme, move the theme's folder (which should be named after the theme you downloaded - such as "MegaLight" or "Starz") into your /data/themes folder.  It should appear alongside your "MegaLight", "MegaLight GH3" and "UberLight" theme folders, and should be selectable under "Theme Settings" for use in-game.

*PLEASE NOTE* if you cannot get a basic version of Frets on Fire working, FoFiX will not fix your problem. We will not help you get the game working - there are plenty of support threads on [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewforum.php?f=3 this forum] that can help you troubleshoot.