#summary Archived old news items from the summary page

= Old News =

====Feb. 8th 2009 ====
3.100 Release Candidate 1 (SVN r1017) has been released for testing.  

  * Download 3.0xx -> 3.100 RC1 Patch for Windows [http://www.mediafire.com/?yent1wnmvmn from Mediafire] / [http://rapidshare.com/files/198617247/FoFiX-3.030_r1017-Patch-Windows_3.100RC1_.rar from Rapidshare]
  * Download 3.100 RC1 Full for Windows [http://www.mediafire.com/?uizllmvqyzo from Mediafire] / [http://rapidshare.com/files/198617246/FoFiX-3.030_r1017-Full-Windows_3.100RC1_.rar from Rapidshare]
  * Download 3.100beta4 -> 3.100 RC1 Patch Installer for Windows [http://www.mediafire.com/?dnyb1myyqky from Mediafire]
  * Download 3.100 RC1 Full for Mac [http://www.mediafire.com/?y0tyytjdyyz from Mediafire]
  * Download 3.100 RC1 Full for GNU/Linux (32bit) [http://www.mediafire.com/?ncyng1oj21n from Mediafire]


====Feb. ? 2009 ====
3.100 Beta 4 (SVN r960) has been released for testing.  This should be the last beta, 3.100 final is scheduled for release in a couple days - assuming there are no major problems with beta 4.

  * Download 3.0xx -> 3.100 beta 4 Patch for Windows [http://www.mediafire.com/?mongfyqmy2i from Mediafire] / [http://rapidshare.com/files/195808034/FoFiX-3.030_r960-Patch-Windows_3.100beta4_.rar from Rapidshare]
  * Download 3.0xx -> 3.100 beta 4 Patch installer for Windows [http://www.mediafire.com/?zjiyyvigoht from Mediafire] 
  * Download 3.0xx -> 3.100 beta 4 Patch for Mac [http://www.mediafire.com/?ojzx2nowmwy from Mediafire]
  * Download 3.100 beta 4 Full for Mac [http://www.mediafire.com/?n3yywbmzyyx from Mediafire]
  * Download 3.100 beta 4 Full for GNU/Linux (32bit) [http://www.mediafire.com/?m4dlmmgctbl from Mediafire]

*Note to GNU/Linux users*: Sorry, i screwed up creating the binaries for beta3, no more missing glx in beta4.


====Jan. 25th 2009 ====
3.100 Beta 3 (SVN r862) has been released for testing.  Big Rock Endings and Drum Fills have come further since 3.100 beta 2.  Guitar picks will now repeat for menu and songlist scrolling, and lyrics will no longer show during the song countdown.

  * Download 3.0xx -> 3.100 beta 3 Patch for Windows [http://www.mediafire.com/?ytkyy2jgjmg from Mediafire] / [http://rapidshare.com/files/189452982/FoFiX-3.030_r862-Patch-Windows_3.100beta3_.rar from Rapidshare]
  * Download 3.100 beta 2 (from installer only) -> 3.100 beta 3 Patch Installer for Windows [http://www.mediafire.com/?oqzejgukmqy from Mediafire]
  * Download 3.100 beta 3 Full for Mac [http://www.mediafire.com/?zjygy8z732x from Mediafire]
  * Download 3.0xx -> 3.100 beta 3 Patch for Mac [http://www.mediafire.com/?2tzgzjzdzy3 from Mediafire]
  * Download 3.x -> 3.100 beta 3 Patch for GNU/Linux (32bit) [http://www.mediafire.com/?ygydjlktjmz from Mediafire]
  * Download 3.100 beta 3 Full for GNU/Linux (32bit) [http://www.mediafire.com/?zk11yum43a0 from Mediafire]

====Jan. 18th 2009 ====
3.100 Beta 2 (SVN r812) has been released for testing.  Big Rock Endings and Drum Fills have come much further since 3.100 beta 1, as has the settings menu.  No more double-and-triple song loading cycles, either.

  * Download 3.100 beta 2 Patch for Windows [http://www.mediafire.com/?yqgyngnydow from Mediafire] / [http://rapidshare.com/files/185779080/FoFiX-3.030_r812-Patch-Windows_3.100beta2_.rar from Rapidshare]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?mxqd1xcjytv Download 3.100 beta 2 Patch for GNU/Linux] (32bit)
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/download.php?hzzmjjlmzz3 Download 3.100 beta 2 Full installer for Windows by js]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?t22bvymvldz Download 3.100 beta 2 Full for Mac]

====Jan. 11th 2009 ====
3.100 Beta 1 (SVN r762) has been released for testing.  Notable new features include very basic Big Rock Ending support, Drum Fills, MIDI instrument input support, whammy pitch-bending support, basic 3D note.dae texturing support, and songlist metadeta caching. 

  * Download 3.100 beta 1 Patch for Windows [http://www.mediafire.com/?oyzm0zzjjy2 from Mediafire] / [http://rapidshare.com/files/183238330/FoFiX-v3.030_r762-Patch-Windows_3.100beta1_.rar from Rapidshare]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/download.php?kymz3ondmrn Download 3.100 beta 1 Full installer for Windows]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?zaxtqiynlnk Download 3.100 beta 1 Full for Mac]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?rgxfzcmd0nj Download 3.100 beta 1 Patch for GNU/Linux (32bit)]`*`
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?czndbnh2bjv Download 3.100 beta 1 Full for GNU/Linux (32bit)]`*`

`*` *Note to GNU/Linux players:* MIDI instrument support and whammy pitch bending support are *not* included. Releasing a beta w/ SndObj (required for pitchbending) requires too much work for now. (--_evilynux_)

====Jan. 7th 2009 ====

_Coming soon - 3.100 beta 1 (that's right, we're skipping from 3.030 directly to 3.100.  There will be no 3.035... entirely too much progress has been made for such a minor version increment.  -Chris)_

====Dec. 21st 2008 ====
3.035 Beta 2 (SVN r621) has been released for testing.  
I would write more, but I have to go.  Someone else can edit this later :)
(I also appear to have obliterated the beta 1 release news... I'll have to fix this later unless someone wants to take care of that for me - I forgot to paste into the oldnews, I'm a bit rushed as I have to leave in 5 minutes)

  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?2mowhnyjklh Download 3.035 beta 2 Patch for Windows]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?x0jgmyb4jtm Download 3.035 beta 2 Patch for GNU/Linux (32bit)]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?ml3yym5vwmj Download 3.035 beta 2 Patch for GNU/Linux (64bit)]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?v2zjdnoqdrl Download 3.035 beta 2 Patch for MacOS X]

====Dec. 7th 2008 ====
FoFiX has a new tutorial song, for a total of [http://fofix.googlecode.com/files/FoFiX-All4Tutorials.rar 4].  This new drum roll practice tutorial was created by venom426.

Warning: playing this tutorial song in a FoFiX revision below 548 can result in incorrect scoring due to drums allowing sustained notes.  


====Nov. 30th 2008 ====

3.035 beta 1 (SVN r469) has been released for testing.  
_Detail obliterated by chris.paiano - my bad!_

  * [http://www.mediafire.com/download.php?1ntnwn2ueic Download 3.035beta1 Patch for Windows]
  * _Other OS download links obliterated by chris.paiano - my bad!_

====Nov. 19th 2008 ====
Final 3.030 is finally out with [http://code.google.com/p/fofix/issues/list?can=1&q=status%3Afixed%2Cverified%2Cdone+milestone%3Arelease-3.030 tons of changes since 3.025]!
Thanks to all the players who provided valuable feedback during the beta phase.

Now head to the [http://code.google.com/p/fofix/downloads/list download section]! ;-)

====Nov. 14th 2008 ====
3.030 beta 2 (SVN r355) has been released for testing.  
The main reasons for this beta release is to let users test:
  * the fix for issue 165  (Chris does not own a guitar controller that exhibits this problem -- initial reports indicate that this problem has been solved).
  * the View thread timing changes made in r350 (Should result in major smoothness and stability improvements as well as mostly fixing[?] the double-loading screen issue).

Please post in the [http://www.fretsonfire.net/forums/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=25040 FoFiX Development Thread] if you find that 3.030 beta 2 removes the requirement for XPadder or JoyToKey for those users that currently have to use these external applications.

  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?mjejifdmndt Download 3.030beta2 Patch for Windows]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?nfjtn4vfn4a Download 3.030beta2 Patch for GNU/Linux (32bit)]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?nbb4lduyuhi Download 3.030beta2 Patch for GNU/Linux (64bit)]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?mhy4diigpnd Download 3.030beta2 Full package for MacOS X (Universal)]

====Nov. 7th 2008 ====
3.030 beta 1 (SVN r277) has been released for testing.  It's main feature is that an old, outdated dependency on Amanith and pyAmanith has been removed; the full package is lighter, less support files and libraries (saved about 1MB).

  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?vjjidezzw5n Download 3.030beta1 Full package for Windows]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?dahjmgxcydn Download 3.030beta1 Full package for GNU/Linux (32bit)]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?glmi1n5lxvl Download 3.030beta1 Full package for GNU/Linux (64bit)]
  * [http://www.mediafire.com/?icdydgzb0ej Download 3.030beta1 Full package for MacOS X (Universal)]